---
id: "2024-11-14"
aliases: []
tags:
  - Log/DaiLyLog
  - new
  - daily-notes
created:
  - 2024-11-14 10:08
---

# 📅 Daily Log 2024-11-14

---

## 🔷 Daily Tasks

- [ ] Add task for setting up property for aggregation in the Ui Data Selected Payment Methods

---

# 💼Work

## 🚀 Notes

- For settlement calendar In the MVP we will have a default day set for GB
    3 different scenarios:
        - Persona has SCAL
        - Persona has no SCAl
            - It will open Payment Selector.
            - It will open a calendar selector.
                - Send information of SCAL being active
                    - new user Action
                    - In the new user action send default day for market
                - Also in Purchase review add the day selected.
        - Persona has SCAL inactive.
            - In the new user action send the information that was inactive aswell

In the US we rollet oud SCAL to all. The idea is to have this level of granularity.
montly, weekly, biweekly

### How does the InvoiceCreator works:

First it gets the information for `CreatedPaymentMethodsData` from session and product.
Then it passes to the `InvoicePaymentMethodsCreator` to the `createPaymentMethods` method
First it checks that the product offering is comaptible in method `productOfferingIsCompatible`
    - Here it checks for the settlement calendar and product configuration
        - If aggregation is NONE then is regular PL and return `true`
Next it checks that the aggregatedInvoiceRegion is on by using `aggregatedInvoiceRegionToggleConfiguration`
Then it retrieves the credit time due date days.
Then it retrieves the aggregation type
    - `NONE` is used for default pay later
    - `DYNAMIC_CREDIT_TIME` is used everywhere
    - `STATIC_CREDIT_TIME` is not used in US but everywhere is default
Then it builds the `PayLaterPaymentOptionAttributes` which has the `aggregationAttributes`
Then it passes that to the `invoicePaymentMethod` through the `attributes` property.

### Mapping the user stories to what we have to do:
- [PEM-9864](https://klarna.atlassian.net/browse/PEM-9864) Configure steps to onboard SCAL on PLX
    - Transfer the logic for onboarding SCAL based on market
    - Given US customer follow the current flow
    - Given UK customer:
        - When the user is un-configured then configure it by default
        - When the user have disabled SCAL configure it.
- [PEM-9863](https://klarna.atlassian.net/browse/PEM-9863) Introduce PGW new Mutation to store SCAl
    - There's a new mutation for setting SCAL values on persona GW

These two task above have to be done together
This is the steps I will follow
- [ ] Create a configuration called `feature.invoice.aggregated.settlement.calendar.onboard=GB`
- [ ] Use that configuration in the `invoicePaymentMethodsCreator` to differentiate US than GB
- [ ] Map the new PGW endpoint in the PGW module task PEM-9863
- [ ] Create a new Step called `OnboardSettlementCalendarStep` and make it conditional with the prev configuration.
- [ ] Add new integration test for the onboarding process covering when User is not being


- [PEM-9861](https://klarna.atlassian.net/browse/PEM-9862) Configure default recurrent and cadence per market
    - Make some configs to set the default values for SCAL based by market on the step created before.


# 👑 Personal

---

## 📕 Reminders

-

## 💬 Notes

# 📦 References

---
