---
created:
  - "2025-07-01 18:07"
tags:
  - fleeting
  - new
---
```meta-bind-button
label: Start adding topics
id: transcript
style: primary
actions:
  - type: command
    command: quickadd:choice:8e31af9f-9c45-478a-8752-70858a79703f

```
# 🔷 Knowledge
This idea of knowledge a lot of intelligence is based on knowledge, knowing things lets us draw conclussions.

Knowledge-based agents
agents that readon by operating on internal representation of knowledge.

Example
facts: 
If it didn't rain harry visited hagrid today
Harry visited hagrid or dumbledore today but not both
Harry visited dumbledore today.

base on this info what extra information can we extract:
- Harry did not visit hagrid today.
- It does rained today.

How to make the ai logical, in the same way we interpret this example.
As humans IAs does the same of translating things based on a language.
THs is our language

- sentence: an assertion about the world in a knowledge representation language

Propositional logic
We create symbols:
$P$, $Q$ and $R$ this symbols represent facts in our proposition
We need to connect our propositions symbols, so we need to connect them, using logical connectives:
- $\text{and} = \land$ 
- $or = \lor$
- $not = \lnot$
- $implication = \to$
- $biconditional = \Leftrightarrow$

## not connector

| $P$   | $\lnot P$ |
| ----- | --------- |
| true  | false     |
| false | true      |
## And connector

| $P$   | $Q$   | $P \land Q$ |
| ----- | ----- | ----------- |
| false | false | false       |
| false | true  | false       |
| true  | false | false       |
| true  | true  | true        |

## Or connector

| $P$   | $Q$   | $P \lor Q$ |
| ----- | ----- | ---------- |
| false | false | false      |
| false | true  | true       |
| true  | false | true       |
| true  | true  | true       |

## Implication

| $P$   | $Q$   | $P \to Q$ |
| ----- | ----- | --------- |
| false | false | true      |
| false | true  | true      |
| true  | false | false     |
| true  | true  | true      |
If $P$ is false then always the implication is true. THe only wat when implication matters is when $P$ is true.

## Biconditional
Can be translated as **if and only if**

| $P$   | $Q$   | $P \Leftrightarrow Q$ |
| ----- | ----- | --------------------- |
| false | false | true                  |
| false | true  | false                 |
| true  | false | false                 |
| true  | true  | true                  |

This connectors will connect our ideas to draw conclussions

other terms:

## model
We have propositions to our world, but we need a model:
assignment of a truth value to every propositional symbol (a "possible world")
example
$P$ it is raining
$Q$ it is a tuesday
model: {$P$ = true, $Q$ = false}

in a wolrd with $n$ possible symbols, exists $2^n$ worlds.

## Knowledge base:
a set of sentences known known by a knowledge-based agent. is a set of fact and axioms that our agent already know are truth.

## Entailment
$\alpha \vDash \beta$
In every model in which sentence $\alpha$ is true, sentence $\beta$ is also true.

## Inference
the process of deriving new sentences from old ones.

# How to apply it
example:

Proposition Symbols:
- $P$: It is a Tuesday.
- $Q$: It is raining.
- $R$: Harry will go for a run.
Knowledge base:
- $(P \land \lnot Q) \to R$
- $P$
- $\lnot Q$
Inference:
- $R$ is true

## Inference algorithms
The algorithms have this goal:
Does $KB \vDash \alpha$ where $KB$ is *knowledge base*.

### Model checking
- To determine if $KB \vDash \alpha$
    - Enumerate all possible models.
    - if in every model where $KB$ is **true**, $\alpha$ is true, then $KB \vDash \alpha$
    - otherwise, $KB$ does not entail $\alpha$.

$P$: is tuesday.
$Q$: is raining
$R$: harry will go for a run.
$KB$: 
- $(P \land \lnot Q) \to R$
- $P$
- $\lnot Q$
Query: $R$

| $P$   | $Q$   | $R$   | $KB$      |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | --------- |
| false | false | false | **false** |
| false | false | true  | **false** |
| false | true  | false | **false** |
| false | true  | true  | **false** |
| true  | false | false | **false** |
| true  | false | true  | *true*    |
| true  | true  | false | **false** |
| true  | true  | true  | **false** |
There's only one possible world where the knowledge base is true.
Look at the query is $R$ true in that possible world where knoledge base is true, **yes**, then $KB \vDash \alpha$ where $\alpha$ is the query.

```ts
const rain = Symbol("rain");
const visitHagrid = Symbol("Hagrid");
const visitDumbledore = Symbol("Dumbledore");

const knowledgeBase = Sentence.and(
    Implication(Not(rain), visitHagrid),
    Or(visitHagrid, visitDumbledore),
    Not(And(visitHagrid, visitDumbledore)),
    visitDumbledore
)

knowledgeBase.print() //should print the whole sentences in natural language format

const query = rain; //is it raining?
modelCheck(knowledgeBase, query); //this should return true
```

## Knowledge engineering
The process of trying to find which symbols to use, which knowledge can be represented and how.

Examples:

### Clue:
There are number of people
- Col. Mustard
- Prof. plum
- Ms. Scarlet
rooms:
- hallroom
- kitchen
- gallery
Weapons:
- knife
- revolver
- wrench
The goal is to solve the mistery which person, which room which weapon was used.

Propositional symbols:
 - $mustard$
 - $plum$
 - $scarlet$
 - $hallroom$
 - $kitchen$
 - $library$
 - $knife$
 - $revolver$
 - $wrench$
Knowledge base:
- $(mustard \lor plum \lor scarlet)$
- $(hallroom \lor kitchen \lor library)$
- $(knife \lor revolver \lor wrench)$
As the game advance I start knowing things that I can add:
- I draw the plum card, then plum cannot be: $\lnot plum$
- Someone makes a guess and fails like **mustard in the library with a knife**, then I know for sure that at least one of the propositions where incorrect: $(\lnot \text{mustard} \lor \lnot \text{library} \lor \lnot \text{knife})$

### Logic puzzles
- Gilderoy, Minerva, Pomona and Horace each belong to a different one of the four houses: Gryffindor, Hufflepulff, Ravenclaw and Slytherin house.
- Gilderoy belongs to Gryffindor or Ravenclaw.
- Pomona does not belog in Slytherin
- Minerva belongs to Gryffindor


Model check is not an efficient way to navigate, is not practical with large amounts of data.

## Inference rules
Modus ponens
$\alpha \to \beta$ and $\alpha$ then $\beta$

And elimination
$\alpha \land \beta$ then $\alpha$ is true, and $\beta$ is true

Double negation elimination
$\lnot (\lnot \alpha)$ then $\alpha$ is true

Implication elimination
$\alpha \to \beta$ then $\lnot \alpha \lor \beta$

Biconditional elimination
$\alpha \Leftrightarrow \beta$ then $(\alpha \to \beta) \land (\beta \to \alpha)$

De morgan's law
$\lnot (\alpha \land \beta)$ then $\lnot \alpha \lor \lnot \beta$ 
$\lnot (\alpha \lor \beta)$ then $\lnot \alpha \land \lnot \beta$

Distribution law
$(\alpha \land (\beta \lor \gamma))$ then $(\alpha \land \beta) \lor (\alpha \land \gamma)$


## draw to search problems
- initial state
- actions
- transition model
- goal test
- path cost function

## Theorem proving
turn a search problem into knowledge algorithm
- Initial state: starting knowledge base
- actions: inference rules
- transition model: new knowledge base after inference
- goal test: check statement we're trying to prove
- path cost function: number of steps in proof

## Resolution
### Unit resolution
is base on the idea:
$(\text{Ron is in the great hall}) \lor (\text{Hermione is in the library})$
and $\lnot (\text{Ron is in the great hall})$
then $\text{Hermione is in the library}$

if $P \lor Q$ and $\lnot P$ then $Q$
if $P \lor Q_1 \lor Q_2 \lor ... \lor Q_n$ and $\lnot P$ then $Q_1 \lor Q_2 \lor ... \lor Q_n$

### Unit resolution
$P \lor Q$ and $\lnot P \lor R$ then $Q \lor R$
$P \lor Q_1 \lor Q_2 \lor ... \lor Q_n$ and $\not P \lor R_1 \lor R_2 \lor ... \lor R_n$ then $Q_1 \lor Q_2 \lor ... \lor Q_n \lor R_1 \lor R_2 \lor ... \lor R_n$

clause a disjunction of literals

### conjunctive normal form
logical sentence that is a conjunction of clauses
eg $(A \lor B) \land (D \lor \lnot E) \land (F \lor G)$ 








